---
layout: post
title:  'Day 60: The North (again)'
date:   2019-06-09
img:    the_north.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Blog, Road Bike]
author: Moritz Beller # Add name author (optional)
---

**The weather prediction for Den Haag was OK for today and so-la-la
  for tomorrow, so Timea and I took the chance to go to the north
  again and use the long weekend to discover some new
  ground. Specifically, we took the long train ride to Leeuwarden to
  start our journey. By the way, what do you think of the title
  picture? I am really proud of 'my image' of the North. I think this
  is one of the best pictures I have ever taken (I asked our taxi
  driver from the Waddenloop to wait for bit to not let the photo
  opportunity slip.)**

I liked the quietness of Leeuwarden and the lunch place
<strike>we</strike> I found, in addition to the sick statue that they
have in front of the train station. I think I have seen another of the
same style in the Netherlands (maybe in Utrecht?). In typical
Escher-style, the 'aspect ratio' of those heads really makes you doubt
your vision (shout out to people to go visit the [Escher
museum](https://www.escherinhetpaleis.nl/) in Den Haag, which is
fantastic). We tried to use it to architect a picture with our bikes.

![Distorted Aspect Ratio]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/leeuwarden.jpg)

The ride was pretty nice, with some small cycling paths with steep
bridges that were quite fun to ride up and down. With many amateurs
coming our way, not exactly a route I would necessarily do with a race
bike, but as a leisurly touring ride, it was good!

We visited a Buddhist monesterey to check out whether it was worth to
stay there for a little longer (e.g., overnight). Timea was less
impressed by the monk that seemed to run it all. Plus, he gave
somewhat weird answers to our questions. So we did not even drink from
the provided free tea.

For a long time, we rode very close to the sea, sometimes even on the
sea side of the dyke. With the curvuture in the road, this felt a
little bit like riding on a velodrome. Despite a few hurdles (a lot of
sheep excrements and some fences to climb over), this was a very
special experience. We wondered whether the sheep would ever cross the
asphalt, but a little later one sheep on the far side of the dyke put
an end to that discussion. It was also impressive to see the Dutch
landwinning methods (today only used for protective purposes of the
already exisiting land) at work. In the picture above, you can see the
old German method for winning land at work: The Dutch says it is the
most efficient.

![Landwinning]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/marshland.jpg)

In Pieterburen, we arrived at the quite nice and new hotel
[Dorpshuis](https://www.dorpshuispieterburen.nl/home/), which we
booked this morning. Next to some sick remote-controlled Velux
skylights, what was especially nice is that the hotel had a shed for
the bikes, and everything else one could think of was provided for,
including a kitchen. As I bought three Radlers but <strike>we</strike>
only drank two, I returned one to the fridge, where the hotel was also
selling them (but had run out of Radlers). We found out the next
morning that we actually sold the Radler for 1,50â‚¬ (unfortunately our
margin on it was not too high). Which was great because it meant I did
not have to carry it back all the way.

Tot zo,

![Moritz]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/moritz.png)


<iframe height='405' width='590' frameborder='0'
allowtransparency='true' scrolling='no'
src='https://www.strava.com/activities/2437594925/embed/88501286e8bc67f746b042973b5eb73cf6b6ce4f'></iframe>