---
layout: post
title:  'Day 25: Ringvaart Haarlemermeer'
date:   2019-05-04
img:  haarlemermeer.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Blog, Road Bike]
author: Moritz Beller # Add name author (optional)
---

**This track has it all: Wide streets, wide canals, and wide-body
  jets: Can it get better? Yes, with sun shine, please! Today I did
  the Ringvaart Haarlemmer Meer, another one off the [bucket
  list](/ing/) and recommended [by DC
  Rainmaker](https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2019/03/5-random-things-i-did-this-weekend-89.html).**

The name Haarlemeer refers to a what used to be a large lake ("meer")
between the cities of Leiden in the south and Amsterdam in the
north. In the middle ages, even Spanish warships fought a fourious
battle on it. Now, all that remains is a circular channel that
surrounds it. This is thanks to King Willem I, who in 1837 decided
that the people of Leiden and Amsterdam should never get their feet
wet from the Haarlemermeer again. Which brings me to a bit of history
lesson on dijk (dike) building:

> But what is a polder and what is dijk?

To create land from water, first the Dutch build a dijk, in this case
the ringdijk surrounding the Haarlmermeer.

> Whenever you see a river that is higher than its surroundings (which
  looks weird and kindof dangerous) chances are that you are in a
  polder.

These waterways are primarily to transport the excess water away, but
can also be useful later to transport goods and people. The water is
pumped out of the inner, enclosed region into them, decreasing the
water level on the inside, a process called "drogmaalen"
(drymilling). Traditionally, the Dutch did this with wind mills
(that's why they are everywhere), but not so in the case of the
Haarlemermeer. Here, steam rollers were used to drive the pumps for
the first time! This inner-region, which hopefully eventually will be
dry, is the polder.

The tour I rode today, which despite the weather was very popular with
race bikers, takes you alongside the Halemeerpolder, in the channel
created around it, the ringvaart. The beauty of this tour is that one
can start (and end it) in a number of different cities in the
Randstand: Amsterdam, Leiden, and even Den Haag. On the way, I had
pretty strong headwinds (4-5 on the scale), but at least on the way
back, I could then smash it.

> I even entered the secured part of Schiphol today. Only for a few
  meters, but still, the gate went up.

![Weather was typical April's weather (in
 May?!)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/weather.jpg)

Next to some stunning villages, the tour also takes you along Schiphol
airport, or in my case, a little bit into it. All of sudden, the bike
path ended and I was in front of this 4-gate super huge security
station. I saw on the map that I needed to travel that direction,
didn't think too much of it, and sure enough, up the gate went. I
continued on, when I heard the lady jump out of her little house and
say "Mooooment. You have to show me your pass." She was really nice
though (seeing my misery in the rain/hail) and told me where I can
merge onto the bike path *around* not *through* Schiphol airport.

On the way back, I met Jasper. Well, what that means is that my Elemnt
Bolt showed "Jasper K." on the map and about a minute later, I saw a
guy on a nice green Giant Propel. As I passed, I quickly noted that he
had an Elemnt, so I took my chances and shouted "Jasper", hoping it
would somehow make his day ;-). No reaction at first, but a couple
hours, later, [I get this comment on
Strava](https://www.strava.com/activities/2344303317). So that made my
day. Technology, kids ...

On the way back I also had a near-crash with a suicidal dog. I had
just cleared Leiden and was on some very nice, wide bike paths,
practically no traffic, riding in the drops, away from my brakes. I'm
doing maybe 33km/h, the aero wheels slicing through the air in the
gratifying "woooosh-wooosh-wooosh" sound one can easily get addicted
to. There is a woman with two smallish dogs on the left, about 5m away
in the grass on the other (!) side of the bike path.

> When all of a sudden, one of the beasts decides to go absolutely
mental and sprints toward me, barking.

This is how it must feel riding a train and something all of a sudden
jumps in your way. I wouldn't have been able to do anything at all,
lest try and bunny-hop suicide-dog (which would definitely still have
hurt him and me very much). Fortunately, the dog keeper somehow gets
the leash fastened in the last moment and all I hear is the scratching
of suicide-dog's claws on the tarmac, having no grip to close the
final meter. What the heck.

Oh, and did I mention that I got hailed on [again](/correct/)? Once
home, I had some stomach cramps, which was weird because I felt pretty
good on the bike and never had issues before. I hope it's not the [new
Isostar I
bought](https://www.amazon.de/Isostar-Hydrate-Perform-Grapefruit-Fresh/dp/B003TWUJRA/ref=sr_1_3?__mk_nl_NL=%C3%85M%C3%85%C5%BD%C3%95%C3%91&crid=24IXTQ88JDL3Z&keywords=isostar+grapefruit&qid=1557097292&s=gateway&sprefix=isostar+gr%2Caps%2C146&sr=8-3). Maybe
I ate too little before starting and then also too little during the
tour. I am pretty proud though that I barely stepped off the bike,
with only 15 minute pause time, and ate everything (two bars) on the
bike riding.

Tot zo,

![Moritz]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/moritz.png)



<iframe height='405' width='590' frameborder='0'
allowtransparency='true' scrolling='no'
src='https://www.strava.com/activities/2344303317/embed/f9db25ba9ee13e7b309f4d90afdde413f10007f7'></iframe>