---
layout: post
title:  'Day 32: MMday2, Amstel Gold Race'
date:   2019-05-12
img:  mmday2_amstelgoldlogo.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Blog, Road Bike]
author: Moritz Beller # Add name author (optional)
---

**Today was the big one: the Amstel Gold Race (well, the 125km tourist
  version of it, that is)! As I reflected on it, I was quite nervous
  beforehand: Would I make it up the steep ramps, despite my
  inadequate gearing? Since Martin has a really good base fitness
  anyway (and lower gears) and I saw that he knows how to pace, I was
  not concerned at all about him. But for me, I realized this one of
  the few things I have done, where I legitimately did not know
  whether I was going to be able to do them.**

The week before the ride, Timea inspired me to do the Amstel Gold race
(something on her bucket list, too). I downloaded the GPX file for the
125km route, imported it into Komoot and added our start- and endpoint
in Lanaken. This resulted in a 140+km track, but I thought I would
rather not tell Martin about the few extra kilometers since they were
mostly flat anyway. Of course, this totally did not work, and Martin
discovered my trickery very early on. Fortunately, he took it with a
smile.

The Amstel Gold Race is one of the Cycling spring classics, this year
spectacularly won by Dutch wunderkind Matthieu van der Poel. It
consists of a route that zigzags around Maastricht (never really going
further than 25km from Maastricht) and more or less picks up any hill
in the region. On our route, we first did a transfer across the
channel by boat from Belgium into the Netherlands.

> Somehow, spending those 1,20â‚¬ for the ferry transfer always makes me
really happy and feels like I am using my race bike.

![Vlaai]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/mmday2_vlaai.jpg)

The first real hill on our route was the
[Maasberg](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yxYEHzzEkIU). I really
enjoyed riding up the relatively soft cobbles, but also began to fear:
Would it get significantly steeper, I might not make it up? Would
there be more brutal cobbles on the way? On we pressed, and Martin
called for a cafe stop at exactly the right time (and right place): We
had some uber-delicious rhubarb vlaai, a special kind of cake from the
region of Limburg that has a caramelized base. Also, lots of whipped
cream and a Baileys shot ... well, that's special.

We then cycled alongside nice houses, a very sharp and distinctively
shaped church tower and what looked like the same field over and over
again.

![Burger]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/mmday2_burger.jpg)

For lunch, we had a fantastic burger. But that also slowed us down
significantly, as the entire process from order to paying took 1.5
hours: a typical Dutch eat-out experience (with the waitress also
saying that it was "very busy", well, there were maybe 5 other groups
that ordered), except for that it tasted delicious! In hindsight, the
enforced rest maybe wasn't so bad.

After lunch, we cycled through some of those alleys where you ride on
pretty narrow roads that are in a little dip with trees all around
you. This was a very idyllic setting and gave me a nice, race-like
feeling. The only thing that disturbed this perfect idyl was my
ever-squeaking bike. At one point, I got the brilliant idea that it
might come from my quick release skewer touching the frame. Lo and
behold, I adjusted it for more space and silence followed (we formed
some theories around whether it might be the bottom bracket, and I
almost started to believe them). Fixing the noise gave me lots of
energy and confidence back. So we took some of those steep descents
pretty fast and soon had 95km behind us.

![Proud]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/mmday2_berg.jpg)

With four more serious climbs to go, we thought it was time for
another quick fuel-up stop. Unfortunately, I ate half an Isostar bar
that was only good until 2016 and got stomach cramps immediately
afterward. They also wouldn't disappear completely anymore during the
ride, but I was able to continue relatively unbothered.

![Amstel Gold Sign]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/mmday2_amstelgold.jpg)

After another coffee stop with some lock trouble (someone stayed cool,
the other person writing this not really), we could almost smell
victory with 30km to go. I had configured my Komoot to show the
altitude profile of the route. Knowing that the Cauberg was the last
climb, I could contain my enthusiasm no longer and pushed 800 Watts
for five seconds at the base of the climb. Unfortunately, I paced my
climb not too well: After 1 minute, I was down to a mere 200
Watts. Even so, looking back at the Amstel Gold Race route, overall I
was fit as f*** (by my standards) and still going strong.

After completing the Amstel part of the route, Martin started putting
the hammer down again and we swooshed to our home in Lanaken, on wide
and smooth cycle paths around Maastricht. In hindsight, we could have
easily done 150km, making this our longest ever ride. But, as Martin
said, there also have to be goals for next year ...

![M&Ms]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/mmday1_mm.jpg)

We ended MMday2 on a high, and some M&Ms (how else would we?!). This
was an intense and absolutely fantastic experience and I feel so lucky
to have shared it with Martin (who I can only hope has similar
thoughts). Unfortunately, despite our best efforts, we could not find
any Amstel beer ... (maybe not a surprise, we stayed in Belgium after
all)

Tot zo,

![Moritz]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/moritz.png)

<iframe height='405' width='590' frameborder='0'
allowtransparency='true' scrolling='no'
src='https://www.strava.com/activities/2362563413/embed/c8c1a6805fd109c2f42f999b8d750687f5755a10'></iframe>